---
title: "managing_logs"
source_url: "https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbo365/guide/managing_logs.html"
last_updated: "10/21/2025"
product_version: "8.3.0.2201"
---


In this article

Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 allows you to collect log files generated by default, as well as enable the extended logging mode and distributed tracing for the Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 backup infrastructure components. Log files and traces help you and Veeam Customer Support specialists to troubleshoot product operation issues when working with Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 and Veeam Explorers.

Logs for Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 Installation and Upgrade

Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 saves the installation and upgrade log files in the %ProgramData%\Veeam\Backup365\Logs\Setup folder. Autorun logs are saved in the %ProgramData%\Veeam\Backup365\Logs folder.

Logs for Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 Components

Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 creates a separate log file for each of its components, the NATS server and a PostgreSQL instance. Logs are saved in the %ProgramData%\Veeam\Backup365\Logs folder.

Logs for Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 PowerShell

For PowerShell modules, Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 saves log files in the %ProgramData%\Veeam\Backup365\Logs\PowerShell folder.

If you move a Microsoft organization data from a JET-based backup repository to another JET-based backup repository or object storage repository using the [Move-VBOEntityData](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbo365/powershell/move-vboentitydata.html?ver=80) cmdlet, Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 saves log files in the %ProgramData%\Veeam\Backup365\Logs\Move folder.

If you remove a Microsoft organization data from a JET-based backup repository or an object storage repository using the [Remove-VBOEntityData](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbo365/powershell/remove-vboentitydata.html?ver=80) cmdlet, Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 saves log files in the %ProgramData%\Veeam\Backup365\Logs\Remove folder.

Logs for Retention

For each backup repository, Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 creates log files on the product retention activity in the %ProgramData%\Veeam\Backup365\Logs\Retention\<RepositoryName> folder.

This folder includes the Retention\_<RepositoryName>\_<timestamp>.log files, where <RepositoryName> is the backup repository name.

Logs for Backup and Backup Copy Jobs

For each backup or backup copy job, Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 saves log files in the %ProgramData%\Veeam\Backup365\Logs\<organization\_name>\<job\_name> folder.

This folder includes the following log files:

* A separate log file for each job session.
* A summary report file in the HTML format with information about all job sessions and all objects that were processed during each job session.
* An archiver appliance log file if Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 uses archiver appliance when performing a backup copy job.

Logs for Data Retrieve

Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 creates a separate log file for each retrieval job. Depending on type of the retrieved data, Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 saves log files in the following subfolders of the %ProgramData%\Veeam\Backup365\Logs\<organization\_name> folder:

* Exchange data retrieval
* SharePoint data retrieval
* OneDrive data retrieval
* Teams data retrieval

Logs for Restore Portal

For each restore session that is performed on Restore Portal, Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 saves logs to the Veeam.Archiver.Service\_<timestamp> and Veeam.Archiver.REST\_<timestamp> files located in the %ProgramData%\Veeam\Backup365\Logs folder.

Logs for Restore using Restore Portal or REST API

For each restore operation that is performed on Restore Portal or using REST API, Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 saves logs to a separate log file in the %ProgramData%\Veeam\Backup365\Logs\RestoreREST folder.

Logs for Veeam Explorers

Log files for Veeam Explorers are saved separately in the %ProgramData%\Veeam\Backup\<Veeam\_Explorer\_Name>\Logs folder.

In This Section

* [Collecting Log Files for Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 Components](vbo_exporting_logs.md)
* [Collecting Log Files for Backup and Backup Copy Jobs](vbo_exporting_logs_jobs.md)
* [Enabling Extended Logging Mode](vbo_extended_logging.md)
* [Enabling Distributed Tracing](vbo_tracing.md)

Page updated 10/21/2025

Page content applies to build 8.3.0.2201
